### Objective

Be able to define, iterate, and control `while` loops and `for` loops

### `while` loop

loop - code that is run over and over again

``` c
while (condition) {
  // do something over and over
}
```

Just like the `if` statement, the condition is a boolean expression. The code in-between the curly braces is the *body* of the loop. 
The body will continue to execute as long as the condition is true. Before every execution of the *body*, the system evaluates
the condition, and if it evaluates false, the loop ends and your code continues to run.

> **Exercise:** Write a program that tracks how many M&Ms you have left, as you eat them.  It should look like this:
> 
> ```
> 100 M&Ms left
> eat how many? 20
> 80 M&Ms left
> eat how many? 60
> 20 M&Ms left
> eat how many? 18
> 2 M&Ms left
> eat how many? 2
> you ate all the M&Ms
> ```
> **Exercise:** [harder] Make sure you can't eat more M&Ms than you have left.

Using a while loop, we can count.

``` c
int count = 0;
while (count < 10) {
    printf("%d", count);
    count = count + 1;
}
```

What happens if we switch the order of the two statements in the loop body?

> **Exercise:** Change this to count down from 10. The last number should be 1.
> **Exercise:** [harder] Change this to count down from 100 to 10 by 5, and then from 9 to 1. The numbers it prints should be 100, 95, 90, ..., 20, 15, 10, 9, 8, ..., 2, 1. At the end, print "blastoff".

A statement like `count = count - 5` is so common that there's a shorter form: `count -= 5`. Likewise for `+=`, `*=`, etc.

#### break

C provides a special word that you can use only inside a loop: `break` says, "End this loop right now!" So, we could count like this instead.

``` c
int count = 0;
while (true) {
    printf("%d", count);
    count += 1;
    if (count > 10)
        break;
}
```

Generally, `while (true)` will cause the loop to run forever! But we "break out" of it using the `break` statement.

> **Exercise:** http://programmingbydoing.com/a/keep-guessing.html
> Use `break` to end the game when the player guesses correctly.

> For this program to be fun, you'll have to generate a random number between 1 and 10 (inclusive). Here's how to do it:

> `int random = arc4random_uniform(10) + 1`

> **Exercise:** Change your program so that it doesn't use break. Instead use a BOOL variable that is NO until the player guesses the number correctly.

> **Exercise:** [harder] Change the program to pick a random number between 1 and 1000. Play it a few times. What's the best strategy to guess the random number as quickly as possible?

> **Exercise:** http://programmingbydoing.com/a/adding-values-in-a-loop.html

### `for` loop

A for statement is a loop that looks like this...

``` c
for (initialization; termination; increment) {
    // do something
}
```

...where:

1. The initialization is executed once at the beginning the loop.
2. When the termination expression is false, the loop terminates; this is analogous to the condition in a while statement.
3. The increment expression is executed after each iteration; this can also decrement.

> **Demo:** for loop that prints 0-4 inclusive.
> **Exercise:** Rewrite the following while loop as a for loop

> ``` c
int i = 0;
while (i <= 100) {
    i++;
    printf("%d", i);
}
>

`while` and `for` loops can both express the exact same computation.

What is wrong with this for loop?

``` c
for (int i = 3; i < 30; i--) {
    System.out.println("counting... " + i);
}
```

The hardest part about for loops is properly stopping the loop. Programmers often make mistakes when setting the termination condition for a loop. In particular, we are often off-by-one. This kind of bug it so common, it has its own Wikipedia page.


> **Exercise:** Counting Machine: Write a program that counts from 0 to a user-specified number.

> **Exercise:** [harder] Counting Machine Revisited: Now let the user input the initial value, the max value, and the increment.

> **Exercise:** "FizzBuzz" is a very famous program, up there with "Hello World!". Write [FizzBuzz](http://programmingbydoing.com/a/fizzbuzz.html) using a for loop.
