#6/2 - Variables & Types pt. II

### Objective

* Become proficient in using different types and variables in Objective-C

Numbers
-
The types `short`, `int`, and `long` represent integers. They vary in size. For our purposes, we use`NSInteger` to represent any integer type. `float` and `double` represent *real numbers*. This means that they can have decimals in them.In Objective-C, we replace float with `CGFloat`. For example, 2 is an integer but 2.1 is a real number.

> Review: Variables and Math
> http://www.binpress.com/tutorial/objective-c-lesson-2-basic-variables/44
> Review: Variables and Mtah
> https://gist.github.com/mikekavouras/701663763fd5b5921d8e

> Exercise: Variables and their sizes
> What happens when you:
> - Divide an NSInteger and an NSInteger?
> - Add a CGFloat and a NSInteger?
> - Add an NSInteger and a double?

Booleans
-
A *BOOL* represents the values `YES` and `NO`. Booleans are useful when data has a "yes" or "no" answer. For example, the question "Is this a banana?" has a boolean answer. Booleans can also be created by comparing two variables. For example, "Is 7 greater than 3?" has a boolean answer. In Objective-C, we write this:

    BOOL answer = 7 > 3;

The value of `answer` will be the boolean value `YES`. Try it!

The boolean comparators are:
* `<`
* `<=`
* `>`
* `>=`
* `==`
* `!=`

What else can you compare?

Chars and Strings
-
A *char* represents a single character. In Objective-C, you denote a char by placing it between single quotes ''. For example, the following are chars: 'a', 'c', '$', '7', and '_'. Strings are sequences of characters and denoted with double quotes "". For example, the following are strings: "hello", "Queens!", "$99.999". Strings are not primitive types but that distinction does not matter to us now.

> Exercise: Play with characters and Strings. What happens if you do the following:
> - `char c = "a";`
> - `NSString *b = 'foo';`
> - What happens if you add, using `+`, two chars together?
> - Do any other mathematical operations work on chars?

### Exercises

#### Exercise #1: Your Schedule

Use several variables to store the names of your classes and their teachers. Then, display a nice little table displaying your schedule.  Just FYI, my column of courses has a width of 26 characters, and the teacher column has a width of 15. The first and last lines are a plus sign, fifty dashes (a.k.a. minus signs) and another plus sign.

Your table doesn't need to look exactly like this, or even line up. I used a total of sixteen variables (course1, course2, ... course8, teacher1, teacher2, etc.). You should do the same.

```
+------------------------------------------------------------+
| 1 |                          English III |       Ms. Lapan |
| 2 |                          Precalculus |     Mrs. Gideon |
| 3 |                         Music Theory |       Mr. Davis |
| 4 |                        Biotechnology |      Ms. Palmer |
| 5 |           Principles of Technology I |      Ms. Garcia |
| 6 |                             Latin II |    Mrs. Barnett |
| 7 |                        AP US History | Ms. Johannessen |
| 8 | Business Computer Infomation Systems |       Mr. James |
+------------------------------------------------------------+
```

#### Exercise #2: 12 Days of Christmas
Print "The Twelve Days of Christmas", an English carol with a lot of repetition!
You can find the structure of the lyrics here: [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Twelve_Days_of_Christmas_%28song%29#Lyrics](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Twelve_Days_of_Christmas_%28song%29#Lyrics).
Use variables to store bits of repeated data and print the full lyrics.
